---
title: "Language Goals"
date: 2023-06-30T16:01:38+08:00
draft: false
---

Despite being less than a week in, I’ve recently had the realization that 
I’ll never achieve perfection in this language. The absolute best I think 
I might possibly achieve is functionality, mediocrity, even 
proficiency—but not without a heavy accent and frequent mistakes. 
White-guyness notwithstanding, nobody is ever going to mistake me for a 
native Mandarin speaker.  

I’m beginning to understand that the amount of time and effort required to 
reach a near-native level is… insane. And despite having been slamming my 
head against Mandarin textbooks for six or so years now, I’m still a long 
ways away: near-native level is not even on the horizon, hell it’s not 
even on the map. 

I was recalling a linguistics/psych study today that suggested that 
motivation was the determining factor in acquiring L2, even more important 
than intelligence itself. I have no doubt that I could put in the work to 
achieve near-perfection in Mandarin. I could spend the next 10 years in 
Mandarin-speaking countries, marry a local, make Mandarin my entire life 
and personality, and then, I think, I would have done it. 

I just don’t think I want to.  

As of right now, seeing what the journey to near-perfection in Mandarin 
looks like has magically fixed my sunk-cost mentality towards acquiring 
this language. I see how much more it would take and I am amply ready to 
change course from my goals of perfection. I have had the motivation to 
get to the level of proficiency that I am currently at, and I have the 
motivation to get a good bit better while I am here in Taipei, but at 
least right now, I don’t have the motivation to get a whole lot better 
than that. 

This is not a bad thing, and by no means does it imply I’m abandoning this 
language. All it means is that right now, I’m reevaluating my language 
learning goals, probably something I should have done quite a while ago. 
It’s not a loss of motivation or willpower, it’s a reallocation.

Before, my primary language learning goal was to achieve fluency. Not a 
very S.M.A.R.T. goal. This goal lacks a particular reason, and has no real 
motivating factor. I don’t want to go into business, I don’t think I want 
to permanently resettle to Asia, and I don’t think diplomatic ambassador 
to China is on the table. It was simply the goal because it had always 
been the goal.

Now, I’m reorienting my language goals around experience. I want to have 
practical abilities in Mandarin because I want to try to understand a 
fully different culture and way of life. To see what it’s like to live on 
the opposite side of the world, to connect with people, and to walk a mile 
in somebody else’s socks in about as different of a place as I could get. 
Now, the language isn’t the goal, the language is the tool. The goal is 
breadth and variety of experience, something I think is vital if I want to 
live a fulfilling and empathetic life, be confident in my experience and 
knowledge of the world, and in my understanding of how much I don’t and 
will never know. 

I’m excited about these new goals and about what experiences Mandarin will 
open me up to. 

And also: the new Indiana Jones movie is a masterpiece.
