---
title: "Specifically Pacific"
date: 2023-07-03T14:42:01+08:00
draft: False
---


Yesterday was my last day in Taiwan before classes begin. The way I saw 
it, it could have been a day of rest, preparing for the weeks of class 
ahead, or a day of activity, taking advantage of one last day with no 
homework or looming classes.

The beach was three buses and a train away, about 90 minutes of transit. 
None of the other people Berk and I have met yet wanted to get up early or 
spend so long on public transit, so we headed out by ourselves. The beach 
was Wai’ao. It’s east of Taipei, a small surf-town between the mountains 
and the water. It has huge rocks and black sand, courtesy of Turtle 
island––an active volcano––off its shore. There are other beaches closer 
to Taipei, but there were two things I wanted to do yesterday:

1.  Splash around in some waves (in the PACIFIC!) ✅
2.  Try my hand at ocean surfing ✅

From my ten minutes of research, Wai’ao was the best beach for these two 
things. 

When we got there, I wandered into a shop to rent a surf board, where I 
ran into a curly-headed white guy in his 20s who seemed to be working or 
living at the surf shop (?) and spoke Mandarin like a local. I so badly 
want to know what your story is. 

I flopped around on the surfboard for a little while, looking like a goof, 
but managed to get up a few times. Then we broke for lunch: beach-pizza 
and pineapple-beer smoothies, which is somehow a better combination than 
it sounds. By the time I got back out to try to surf some more, it had 
gotten quite a bit choppy, and with the pineapple-beer smoothie weighing 
me down, and all the other surfers slowly getting out of the water, I got 
up one more time and then decided to call it. I splashed around in the 
waves for a little while longer, and then we started to head out. I’d love 
to go back for a weekend trip with someone who knows how to surf and be 
safe in the ocean.

All in all, it was lovely to get out of the city for a little while, and 
the day reminded me that I am not totally the city-boy I am trying to be 
(which my Tevas and hiking boots could have told you already). It also 
reminded me that sometimes activity IS the best form of rest. Had I sat 
around all day in my air-conditioned bedroom, or in whatever cafe, I know 
I would be itching and antsy today. Rather than feeling exhausted from 
four total hours of public transit and a day in the sun, I feel 
surprisingly recovered and rested. 

So the motto for the week is: bias towards action.

The rooftop club, heading to the National Palace Museum, and going to the 
beach yesterday were all experiences I wasn’t totally sure about at first, 
but have ended up being some of my highest-lights so far. Going to try to 
keep cultivating these experiences by making “Yes” the default.  

-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Misc.: my new favorite coffee-shop bathroom sign (ahead of Heartwood’s 
coffee-love-languages) says in very simple black and white:

												
“喝咖啡的時候，我屬於你。”  
										      
“When I drink coffee, I belong to you.”
